---
layout: post
title: Second Blog Post
---

What are your thoughts on R vs whatever other software you've used? 
I used SAS for ST513 and ST514, and I've been using R for ST501, ST502 and ST503. Compared to SAS, I definitely like R better. I did not take the SAS course formally but I remember the SAS syntax being confusing and counter-intuitive. I also took an introductory Python class (although not in the data analytical context), I remember Python being similar to R in that they’re both free and open source, and the syntax is not too confusing. 

What functionality do you like about R?  
Although some people might find this confusing, I actually like the fact that there are multiple ways to accomplish something in R. Since there are so many packages already developed, one can pick the easier (or more difficult) route to do something. For example, if the easiest way to get to “A” is by using a certain function within a certain package, but I’m not familiar with that function, I can use a more roundabout but familiar way to get to “A” and the end results are still the same. I also like that R has better graphical capabilities compared with SAS. 

What parts do you miss about your other language?  
Because I've only been using R for an extended amount of time and am starting to feel more comfortable with it, I cannot say what I miss about any of the other programming languages. 

Do you consider R a difficult language to learn? (If you knew R prior to the course, describe your experience when first learning it.)
I definitely found R to be difficult at the very beginning, especially without any prior programming knowledge. Especially since R is not a high-level programming language, even a small mistake can turn out to be a huge problem, which is an issue I frequently had at the beginning. Personally I learn by example, when I had to follow along with the instructor's codes I was able to slowly understand the syntax and what to do in what situation. I also don't see R as an easy language if one was to learn it by reading a book. When we had real problems that required us to use R I found it easier to pick up. My personal experience with R is it was hard when I was first introduced to it in ST501, by ST502 I was struggling a bit, but by ST503 it became more familiar and easier to understand. 

